# Chapter 2 Programming Language Syntax

Computer languages must be precise. Both their form(syntax) and
meaning(semantics) must be specified without ambiguity.

Distinguishing between the syntax and semantics is useful for at
least two reasons. First, different programming languages often
provide features with very similar semantics but very different syntax.
It's generally much easier to learn a new language if one is able
to identify the common semantic ideas beneath the unfamiliar syntax.
Second, there are some very efficient and elegant algorithms that a
compiler or interpreter can use to discover the syntactic structure
of a computer program, and these algorithms can be used to drive
the rest of the compilation or interpretation process.

In the current chapter we focus on syntax: how we specify the
structural rules of a programming language, and how a compiler
identifies the structure of a given input program.

## 2.1 Specifying Syntax: Regular Expressions and Context-Free Grammars

### 2.1.1 Tokens and Regular Expressions

Tokens are the basic building blocks of programs. Tokens come in many
*kinds*, including keywords, identifiers, symbols, and constants of
various types.

To specify tokens, we use the notation of *regular expressions*. A regular
expression is one of the following:

+ A character
+ The empty string, denoted $\epsilon$
+ Two regular expressions next to each other, meaning any string
generated by the first one followed by any string generated by
the second one
+ Two regular expressions separated by a vertical bar, meaning any
string generated by the first one or any string generated by the second one
+ A regular expression followed by a star, meaning the concatenation
of zero oe more strings generated by the expression in front of the star

### 2.1.2 Context-Free Grammars

Regular expressions work well for defining tokens. They are unable
to specify *nested* constructs, which are central to programming languages.
